## Introduction
Under the pressure of global warming, the automotive industry is subject to a plethora of increasingly strict requirements regarding their fleet's greenhouse gas emissions, culminating in the full transition to battery electric vehicles (BEV).
Current BEVs still lack the range of traditional internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles, making them a particular target for light weighting efforts.
Apart from substituting large parts of the vehicle's structure with lightweight materials such as aluminum- and magnesium alloys which can be cost-prohibitive, the development of advanced high-strength steels (AHSS) is an ongoing effort to create new steel grades with an improved combination of strength and ductility while keeping the cost down.
The category of AHSS is currently loosely divided into three generations. The 1^st^ generation AHSS including grades such as dual phase (DP) and complex phase (CP) steels, as well as transformation-induced plasticity steels (TRIP), are currently used in industrial applications and pose an improved behavior compared to conventional high-strength steels.
To further increase their strength, the 2^nd^ generation of AHSS was developed. This includes grades such as full austenitic stainless steels and twinning-induced plasticity steels (TWIP).
These alloys offer excellent mechanical properties but, unfortunately, achieve this by high amounts of expensive alloying elements such as manganese. 
Therefore, the 3^rd^ generation of AHSS was developed and made commercially available in recent years.
Strength and ductility-wise, they fall between the 1^st^ and 2^nd^ generations.
The three most mature grades are Carbide-free bainitic steels (CFB), Medium-Mn steels, and Quenching and Partitioning steels (QP).
Most of these 3^rd^ generation steel grades depend on the TRIP effect, which is based upon the phase transformation mechanism of austenite to martensite.
This mechanism is induced by the deformation of the material such that a given amount of retained austenite is transformed, thus providing an additional hardening mechanism to the material's mechanical response.
Based on this description, it is easy to recognize that the resulting hardening behavior strongly depends on the amount and properties of the retained austenite phase as shown by \cite[doi:10/grnffb].
They report an improved mechanical response of QP980 until necking compared to DP980.
Afterward, due to their similar microstructure, they behave comparably until fracture.